# Bike sharing Case Study
> Problem Statement:
    A US bike-sharing (BoomBikes) has recently suffered considerable dips in their revenues due to the ongoing Corona pandemic. The company is finding it very difficult to sustain in the current market scenario. In such an attempt, BoomBikes aspires to understand the demand for shared bikes among the people after this ongoing quarantine situation ends across the nation due to Covid-19. They have planned this to prepare themselves to cater to the people's needs once the situation gets better all around and stand out from other service providers and make huge profits.

    Company wants to know. 
        1> Which variables are significant in predicting the demand for shared bikes.
        2> How well those variables describe the bike demands

    Business Goal :
        Develop a model to find the variables which are significant the demand for shared bikes with the available independent variables.
        It will be used by the management to understand and manipulate the business strategy to meet the demand levels and meet the customer's expectations.
        Further, the model will be a good way for management to understand the demand dynamics of a new market.


## Table of Contents
* [General Info](#general-information)
* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
* [Conclusions](#conclusions)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


## General Information
- Bike sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the whole process from membership, rental and return back has become      automatic. You can rent bike from one station and return this bike any of the other station all process is online. Through these systems, the user    is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. There is a huge data for research generated by the      bike sharing system. which can be very useful in many cases. 
- This project aims to determine the factors which can help the company take corrective measures to increase the demand and boost revenue. We are trying to model the demand for shared bikes with the available independent variables. It will be used by the Boombike management to understand how exactly the demands vary with different features. They can accordingly manipulate the business strategy to meet the demand levels and meet the customer's expectations. Further, the model will be a good way for management to understand the demand dynamics of a new market. 

The dataset contains the following variables and the details of those is given in the Readme.txt file as well
    - instant: record index
	- dteday : date
	- season : season (1:spring, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
	- yr : year (0: 2018, 1:2019)
	- mnth : month ( 1 to 12)
	- weekday : day of the week
	- workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
    - weathersit : 
            - 1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
            - 2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
            - 3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
            - 4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
	- temp : temperature in Celsius
	- atemp: feeling temperature in Celsius
	- hum: humidity
	- windspeed: wind speed
	- casual: count of casual users
	- registered: count of registered users
	- cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

- A bike-sharing system is a service in which bikes are made available for shared use to individuals on a short term basis for a price or free. Many bike share systems allow people to borrow a bike from a "dock" which is usually computer-controlled wherein the user enters the payment information, and the system unlocks it. This bike can then be returned to another dock belonging to the same system.

- Business problem is the considerable dips in their revenues due to the ongoing Corona pandemic. So Problem solving agenda is to find the features (independent variables) which are significantly increase the demand for shared bikes. So management can use this to understand and manipulate the business strategy to meet the demand and customer expectations. 

- Task performed 
    - Reading understanding and cleaning data 
        1. Missing Value Analysis
        2. Check Bool variable (0,1) and Numerica variable 
        3. Correlation Analysis
        4. Outlier Analysis
        5. Change Categorical variable according data dictionary 
        6. Bi-variate analysis using pair plot 
        7. Scaling the variables 
        8. Divide data into training and test dataset 
        9. fit-transform the training data 
        10. Findout the best fit line model
        11. Transform and evaluate the test data with the best fit model


## Conclusions
    - Season :- In the fall season demand of rent bike is high and low in spring 
    - Month(mnth) :-  In the September month demand of rent bike is high and low in Jan. 
    - Weekday :- In Saturday (weekday) demand of rent bike is high and low in Tuesday. 
    - Weathersit :- In Clear_Few_clouds_Partly_cloudy weather demand of rent bike is high and low in Light_Snow_Rain_Thunderstorm_Scattered_clouds.
    - Working day and Holiday :- In normal working day demand of rent bike is high and low in weekends or holiday. 
    - Top 3 features contributing towards explaining the demand of the shared bikes. 
        - 1. atemp (feeling temperature in Celsius) :- Positive Corelation
        - 2. weathersit (Light_Snow_Rain_Thunderstorm_Scattered_clouds + Mist_Cloudy_Broken_Few_clouds) :- Negative Co-relation
        - 3. yr (Year) :- Postive Corelation




## Technologies Used
Below is the list of major packages used in this project. The complete list of packages are listed in the requirements.txt file
<!--
- library - version 1.0
- library - version 2.0
- library - version 3.0
-->
- jupyter==1.0.0
- jupyter-client==7.3.4
- jupyter-console==6.4.4
- jupyter-core==4.11.1
- jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
- jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.2
- matplotlib==3.5.3
- numpy==1.23.2
- pandas==1.4.3
- scikit-learn==1.1.2
- seaborn==0.11.2
- statsmodels==0.13.2

<!-- As the libraries versions keep on changing, it is recommended to mention the version of library used in this project -->


## Acknowledgements
- References...
  - https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/
  - https://numpy.org/doc/1.23/
  - https://stackoverflow.com/
  
  Special thanks to people who have contributed to stackoverflow questions whose answers have been really helpful for my project.
- This project was based on the Machine learning course content provided by [Upgrad](https://www.upgrad.com).

## Contact
Created by [@abhi41289] - https://github.com/abhi41289 

